# Introduction
- In steady level flight, the trajectory is simple and the aircraft Euler equations reduce to six equilibrium equations. When it comes to complex maneuvers, the loads prediction becomes more difficult. 
- This chapter focuses on requirements for analyzing helicopter main rotor and swashplate load. 
- The focus of this paper is development of methodology for prediction and fundamental understanding of rotor and swashplate loads. 
- First the role of maneuver loads in helicopter is explored and current approaches are addressed. 
- Next, state-of-art of loads prediction is mentioned and finally the approach selected for current paper is explained.
 
## 1.1 Importance of Maneuver Loads in Design
- A helicopter spends most of its time in a steady flight, and the loads encountered in the rotor blades are the integer multiple of rotational frequency. 
- For a N<sub>b</sub> bladed rotor with identical blades, pN<sub>b</sub>/rev harmonics of the loads get transmitted for rotor to the hub during steady flight.
- These harmonics in the fixed frame are generated by  pN<sub>b</sub>/rev and  pN<sub>b</sub> $\pm$ 1/rev harmonics in the rotating frame.


## 1.2 Current Design Practice
Currently, the design process for flight qualification has four phases:
1. Design analysis
2. Ground qualification tests
3. Aircraft flight tests
4. Service and evaluation test

Often due to restrictions by flight data acquisition systems, along with cost and time, some conservation is introduced which results in a more conservative design. 


## 1.3 Flight Test Data
- The U.S. Army/NASA UH-60A Black Hawk Airloads program is the first detailed flight test program with all the data covering steady flight regimes, steady turns and severe unsteady maneuvers.
- One of the blades was instrumented with pressure gauges at 9 stations. 
- Another blade was instrumented with 9 flap bending gages, 8 chord bending gages and 4 torsion gages. 
- All four pitch-links were instrumented along with the three servos under the non-rotating swashplate. 
- There were many severe maneuvers. The #UTTAS Pull-up Maneuver is studied in this thesis

### 1.3.1 UTTAS Pull-up Maneuver
- The UTTAS maneuver, designated by counter 11029, is the second most severe maneuver. This maneuver is carried out in a period of 9 seconds and covers 40 revolutions.
- It is a dynamic pull-up that reached 2.12g at 139 knots and produces the highest root flap bending moment.
- The wake is expected to pass through the rotor disk around revolution number 10 and 24 - first from below to above, then from above to below. 

## 1.4 Challenges for Maneuver Loads Prediction
The complex unsteady aerodynamic forces in an unsteady maneuver may occur due to the following factors:
1. Cyclic variation of blade pitch angle, resulting in asymmetric flow on advancing and retreating sides.
2. Reverse flow on the retreating side due to low effective air speed and large angle of attack required to counter the lift asymmetry.
3. Multiple dynamic stall cycles. 
4. Compressibility and 3D transonic effects on the advancing side.
5. Rotor wake interaction with following blades.

## 1.5 Requirements for Comprehensive Analysis of Maneuver Loads
- In unsteady maneuvers, each blade experiences different inflow, angle of attack airloads and deformation. 
- The simulation modeling requirements for prediction of maneuver loads are listed below:
	1. A helicopter rotor undergoing severe maneuvers is expected to undergo large blade deformations, which can be modeled using exact beam formulations or using second order moderate deformation beam model in conjunction with multibody formulation.
	2. A model is also required for swashplate servo and full-control system.
	3. Transient aerodynamic model for the analysis of maneuver can comprise of either 
		- Lifting-line based analysis should have quasi-steady aerodynamics based on airfoil table look-up, near wake and unsteady aerodynamics modeling for dynamic stall and time accurate far wake evolution.
		- 3D Computational Fluid Dynamics formulations
	4. Control inputs time history is required to simulate the maneuver.
	5. Modeling of rotor-fuselage interactions.
- Depending on the desired level of solution accuracy and computational resources available, the models mentioned above are combined. 

### 1.5.1 Structural Model
#### 1.5.1.1 Blade Modeling
- The use of FFR (Floating frame of reference) allows to treat the elastic deformations and rigid body separately. 
- The corotational frame approach follows an average rigid body motion of an individual finite element within flexible component.
- The new beam modeling models aimed to be robust enough to handle large deformations. Two ways can be incorporated for the same:
	1. Geometrically exact beam theories
	2. Multibody Formulations
- In the corotational frame approach, the motion of a finite element is divided into a rigid body motion and natural deformation modes. 
- Flexible multibody dynamics focuses on analysis & simulation of system with both rigid and flexible component. 

#### 1.5.1.2 Rotor Dynamics Formulations
- Multibody formulation enables modeling of large deformations by breaking the rotor blade into multiple bodies undergoing only moderate deformation within its local frame.
- The net deformation is calculated by adding the local deformation of each element to the net deformation of its parent body.
- This approach is used in comprehensive analysis codes like CAMRAD II and RCAS
	1. CAMRAD : Computer aided modeling of rotor aerodynamics and dynamics
	2. RCAS : Rotorcraft comprehensive analysis software
- DYMORE and MBDyn are examples of modern flexible multibody codes which have been developed as multibody codes to begin with and are capable of modeling arbitrary configurations using algebraic constraints.
- The Lagrange multiplier technique is used in the above codes. It is a mathematical method used to optimize a function subject to one or more equality constraints.
- The use of Lagrange multipliers results in a system of DAEs (Differential algebraic equations) with zero term introduced at the diagonal of the nonlinear stiffness matrix. 
- Full non-linear finite element equations can be solved using time-marching schemes, like Newmark Algorithm.
- Time marching algorithms are best suited for transient analysis.

### 1.5.2 Lifting-line Aerodynamic Model
- The aerodynamic modeling involves two main components:
	1. Blade solution
	2. Wake solution
- The blade solution comprises of airloads calculated from the deformation of the blade.
- The wake solution in itself comprises of two components:
	1. Near wake solution
	2. Far wake solution
- Classical lifting-line model assumes the flow to be inviscid and hence cannot be used for calculating wake. Hence, the wake is studied separately as a system of trailed and shed vortices.
- The far-wake accounts for rolling vortices, which are used to calculate non-uniform rotor inflow.

#### 1.5.2.1 Rotor Wake Modeling
- Wake calculation methods are divided into two categories:
	1. Time marching
	2. Relaxation method (Residual converge)
- The wake evolution is based on velocity at point on the tip-vortex and vortex sheet.
- Once velocity is determined, the wake is advanced forward in time using an initial-value solver.
- #Bio-savart_law is only valid for incompressible flow, hence the rotor codes generally employ the #Prandtl-Glauert compressibility factor. 
- Time marching approaches are better for analysis of maneuvers with high angular rates. 
#### 1.5.2.2 Blade Unsteady Aerodynamics Modeling
- For a fully attached flow at low AoA, the contribution due to unsteady effects on magnitude and phase of net aerodynamic load is less significant, but as reduced frequency ($\dfrac{\omega L}{c}$) increases, it results in increase in unsteady effects. 
	- Here, ${\omega}$ is the natural frequency, **L** is the characteristic length and **c** is the speed of sound.
	- Reduced frequency is represented by _k_.
- Accurate modeling of this phenomena is achievable by first principles through numerical solutions.
- The assumption that dynamic stall happens $3^o$ above static stall angle provides good correlation with the experimental data.
- The ONERA BH model uses a set of second-order differential equations. 
- The model consists of following components:
	1. An attached flow model for linear unsteady airloads
	2. A separated flow model for nonlinear airloads
	3. A dynamic stall model for onset of stall and vortex induced inflow
- The 3D effects encountered in modeling of rotor aerodynamics can be incorporated using lifting-line, non-linear lifting line and lifting surface models.

### 1.5.3 CFD based Aerodynamics
- CFD combined with computational structural dynamics (CSD) model forms the basis for rotor aeromechanics.
- There is coupling between CFD and CSD in two ways:
	1. Loose : Information is exchanged every one or more revolution.
	2. Tight : Information is exchanged every revolution.
- In loose coupling, initial loads and deformations are calculated using conventional lifting line based comprehensive analysis. The calculated deformations are then used by CFD to obtain new estimate for airloads which are then applied as delta corrections over the lifting-line model.

### 1.5.4 Flight Dynamics
- For unsteady maneuvers, a time history of control angles, tail rotor collective and shaft angle orientations are needed to achieve a specific trajectory. 
- The process of calculation of pilot inputs necessary to achieve a certain trajectory is called inverse simulation.
- In the integration inverse method, first the entire trajectory of the maneuver is divided into small steps. Then at each instance of time, an estimate of the change in the amplitude of control displacement required to move the aircraft to the next point is carried out. The error in the resulting position is then estimated and an iterative procedure using a Newton-Raphson is used to minimize the error by a series of control displacements.
- Dynamic stall phenomena is the key mechanism responsible for the high loads during the unsteady maneuvers.


## 1.6 Prediction of Rotor Loads - State of Art
- Prediction of Rotor loads is very important for calculation of control inputs. Two regimes of flight are discussed in this paper. For rev 0-6 the aircraft is in a level flight and thereafter in a unsteady maneuver. 
### 1.6.1 Level Flight
- Lifting line theory for level flight have two key discrepancies:
	1. Negative lift phase error
	2. Underprediction of blade pitching moments
- These two problems are related to each other via the calculation of accurate structural loads. 
- Recently, using CFD coupled with CSD are being used to calculate the torsion response. 
- Also, the 3D unsteady transonic pitching moments were accurately predicted by CFD.

### 1.6.2 Maneuver
- Conditions encountered during maneuvers have additional challenges including
	1. Aperiodic rotor airloads and structural response. 
	2. Dependence of rotor response on vehicle dynamics.
- Loads calculation for such maneuver requires a time-marching algorithm. 
- Many different models have been explored to accurately predict the loads during a maneuver.
- A high fidelity simulation of the prescribed UTTAS pull-up was carried out using a multibody finite element structural model coupled with Reynolds Averaged Navier-Stokes model. 

## 1.7 Objective of Present Research
- The objective of this research is the prediction, validation and fundamental understanding of blade loads and servo loads in an unsteady maneuver.
- Following goals are to be achieved:
	1. Isolate the effects of  structural dynamics, free wake inflow, dynamic stall, swashplate dynamics and rotor pitch control angles, separately, on the prediction of maneuver loads. 
	2. Examine the prediction accuracy of airloads, blade loads and swashplate servo loads using an unsteady lifting-line aerodynamic model.
	3. Use CFD/CSD coupled analysis for accurate prediction of blade loads. 
- The process to achieve these goals are mentioned as follows:
	1. Methodology development for consistent and accurate prediction capability.
	2. Validation of loads with test data for specific flight conditions.
	3. Fundamental understanding.
## Technical Approach
- In the first step, the physics of structural dynamics and aerodynamics is decoupled using the flight test data. 
- The measured airloads, damper forces and control angles from the flight test are used to simulate the measured airloads problem by applying the measured forces on the multibody structural dynamics model.
- This serves two purpose :
	1. The accuracy of the structural model can be studied by itself
	2. The validated blade response can be used to predict airloads in isolation, first with lifting-line, then with RANS CFD model.
- In the second step, comprehensive analysis is carried out using structural model coupled to the lifting-line aerodynamic model to isolate various effects. 
- Finally, the RANS CFD model is coupled to the structural model for accurate prediction of stall loads during the maneuver. 

[[Chapter 2]]