**Author** : Daniel Quinn
**Pages** : 262
**Date Completed**: 31-07-2023

## Plot
This book is not very story focused so the plot can be summarized very briefly. The story revolves around two protagonist, in conversation with each other, both united by their want to save the world. One of them is Ishmael, a Gorilla, a sentient Gorilla. He seeks out people who truly want to save the world. He acts as a guru to the narrator.
They engage in a powerful conversation taking logical arguments from both the sides, and giving the reader a lot to think about. 
Ishmael is bought up by some people who care about him a lot, but later on he is treated like any other gorilla and put in carnivals. He meets the narrator through an ad that he put in the newspaper. He has a room as an office for majority of the tale, however towards the end of the novel, he is evicted and is forced to stay in a carnival. The narrator finds Ishmael and continues his talks with him. With the intention of taking Ishmael with him by buying his freedom, he puts together the money and goes to the owner just to find that the carnival has moved and that Ishmael is dead. 

## Narrative
The book is about how humans came to be the way they are. How they changed over time.  Ishmael's perspective is very different than what I have read about earlier about why and how humans are destroying the world. Ishmael represents the Jungle, the nature and its conversation with a human, which represents culture, is a treat to read. It all started about 3 million years ago, when the very first ancestors of humans started walking the world, but the modern world, as found started some 12000 years ago. What changed? The simple answer is that the population no longer needed to be hunters and gatherers, because they had invented agriculture, which not only allowed humans to create more food than they consume, but also gave the freedom to devote their time to creating a civilization. Since humans are one step further in the long line of evolution, it is natural to accept revolution as a part of evolution. 
What went wrong is that humans broke the peace keeping law of the jungle. As is examined in the book, there are a certain laws that every other species follow, and which is important for the survival of life. 
* When the food production for a species increases, its population increases, and the population of the competitors decrease. When humans started acquiring land for agriculture, they depleted the land for a lot of animals, which reduced their population, which in turn reduced the population of the species dependent on them. This act of humans disbalanced the entire ecosystem. Currently 150 species go extinct everyday. To preserve life, diversity is important, so that there are always species that exist which can survive should there be a change in environmental condition. The law of nature teaches that life must be preserved and the human culture studies that as human life must be preserved. It is almost mathematical. Humans create more food to eradicate famine, but end up causing more of it. As soon as the food production is increased, there is an increase in population and the number of people in famine increases. 
* The book divides the current humans as takers and every other jungle law following species as leavers. The book explains how takers misunderstood the law. They want to prosper, like every other species, but at the cost of other species existence. There is also an interesting point mentioned in the book that if humans believe that they are the end of evolution, then the only thing that remains after humans is death, and they are doing a very good job at sealing that chapter.
* There is an interesting point made in the book that the Bible was not written by the takers, that is why they misinterpret the points. When God made everything, he had no sense of good or evil, because good of one species became evil for another, so gods ate the fruit of Tree of Knowledge of good and evil. This allowed them to truly understand good and evil. When God made man, he forbid the man from eating the fruit of the same tree. Now, if according to takers God wanted humans to rule the world, shouldn't he himself have given the fruit to the humans? This makes no sense to forbid the fruit from this perspective, but when examined from the leavers perspective, the story becomes something else. God knew that man couldn't digest the fruit and it would pass through his stomach. But he wouldn't believe that and would start believing that he now possesses the knowledge of good and evil and would do evil not knowing it. Hence the event is called, "The Fall".
* There are a lot of arguments to just explain how the taker mentality is corrosive and would annihilate everything. The narrator is convinced that this is indeed true and desires the solution to this. The book has a beautiful solution to the problem of life, but also suspects that we are too late and can only hope for the best. The book states that humans should shift their perspective from "World is for humans" to "Humans are for world". This simply means that humans should look out to preserver life more than other species, because they are capable of it. This shift would obviously be gradual and difficult but this is the only way humans can become a tool for life than for death.

## Quotes
Some of the lines that stuck with me from this novel are as follows:

> _“Everyone in your culture knows this. Man was born to turn the world into paradise, but tragically he was born flawed. And so his paradise has always been spoiled by stupidity, greed, destructiveness, and shortsightedness.”_

> _“You're captives of a civilizational system that more or less compels you to go on destroying the world in order to live... I think there are many among you who would be glad to release the world from captivity... This is what prevents them: They're unable to find the bars of the cage.”_

> _“We're not destroying the world because we're clumsy. We're destroying the world because we are, in a very literal and deliberate way, at war with it.”_

> _“The journey itself is going to change you, so you don’t have to worry about memorizing the route we took to accomplish that change.”_

> _“The obvious can sometimes be illuminating when perceived in an unhabitual way.”_

