**Author** : Jim Laughter 
**Pages** : 172
**Date Completed**: 17-08-2023

## Plot
The novel is set in the year 2075 in present day Alaska. In the novel, global warming has led to melting of polar ice caps and flooding in the southern hemisphere countries. The civilisation as we know are completely gone and what remains s a carcass of humanity stinking in the dying world. The world has lost law and order, people have become scavengers, murderers and rapists. It seems like just the inner primordial wills or people came to surface. Nevertheless, there are still a few settlements of people where some law can be seen. Not the law we know, somewhere between that and the law of jungle. The settlement is called "Polar City Red". There are total of 12 cities, with different colour code for each. These are the places where people live in harmony, each contributing something to the society. This particular city has all the facilities one can hope for in the time of dread. The city has electricity from windmills and sun, which only sets once every 6 months, for 6 months. The city also has a clinic and educational material downloaded on the computers which are too old to keep up with the pace of people. But that is what you get when people are in the position of killing for a can of beans. 
Carson and LouAllen Moore are a couple who left their home in Minnesota and were heading north, they found Polar City Red. Carson was a professor and LouAllen a physician, hence they were of great utility to the city. They were accepted. the novel has a lot of discussions and ideas. The characters face many problems throughout the novel. At the end, Dr Alexi Romanov, the administrator of the city appoints Carson Moore as his heir before his own death. The novel ends on a hopeful note that humanity will once again rise to live and this time without repeating its mistakes of the past. 

## Narrative
The story focuses on the city and its secrets. The city was initially an experiment of the government to test out a facility where important people could live in case of a global warming crisis. Global warming has surpassed all allowed and safe limits with the amount of $CO_2$ as high as 1260 ppm. This number is very high compared to the safety limit of 350 ppm. This led to a world where survival is the only things matter. The concept of countries and boundaries are gone. The only thing that binds humanity together is the will to survive. Some ready to kill, some ready to die. The couple enter the city to find its weird laws which initially did not make sense to them. The most interesting rule was the rule of lottery. 
Every member of the society was required to contribute something to the society. The men were allotted work in administration, farming, hunting and security. The women, however, had only one job, to reproduce and nurture the children. People reached the city travelling long distances and hence not many women could make it. This led to a very skewed sex ratio in the city. To bring back balance, the city made rule that every women needed to have 6 partners. 

## Quotes
Some of the lines that stuck with me from this novel are as follows:

